# OTP-based-security-system
Today people are facing more problems about security in all over world, nowadays security is the most important issue in the world. In past, research has undergone on various door lock security systems like traditional security systems which gives the signals in terms of alarm. Some door lock security systems are based on microcontroller, GSM, GPS, many sensors, software like MATLAB, PROTEUS, biometrics like face recognition Iris scanner, RFID, Smart Card, password, etc. The OTP based door lock security system is proposed to complement the drawbacks of the different security systems such as digital door-lock and mechanical door-lock based system. The proposed method does not need user’s help to get access to facility but the user must have the registered mobile phone to get the OTP. Then the OTP will be generated and sent to the user’s mobile phone when the user requests to access facility .And by entering the OTP through keypad on the door is to answer the security question ask by system. The proposed system can overcome the problems of loss or theft in conventional door lock security system. Also in the system camera is attached. Whenever the person come in front of the door then the photo will capture through camera and displays on the display in the home. Then user will open the door. This work is on the design and construction of such a door lock with a keypad to be mounted on the door which can only access through OTP every time. Authentication claims user’s identity, and currently ID/Password based authentication is most widely used. However, there is a big problem to verify user’s identity with simple information. The password of the superfluous authentication mechanisms can overcome such drawbacks to generate a password on each time. An authentication mechanism that is able to overcome such drawbacks is one time password technology. 
